all right let's talk about the 2020
macbook air so this was a
relatively major refresh for apple this
year there's three big changes the first
one
is the keyboard it's no longer running
those terrible butterfly switches that
were unreliable
and not very tactile these are just it's
a better keyword they're scissor
switches
they call it the magic keyboard same
keyboard as the 16-inch macbook pro
i believe in this keyboard the second
thing we've changed is the processor so
now the cpu
and the gpu have been upgraded to the
10th gen intel stuff
it's not like a massive difference it's
significant but
it's still a macbook air and the third
one the one that's nearest and dearest
to my heart
is the value so this has dropped down in
price by a hundred bucks
and at that base price they've increased
the storage
to 256 gigs so overall it's a way better
package this year than the macbook airs
have been for the past couple of years
and as a tech reviewer it's just an easy
apple laptop to recommend for someone
specifically looking for a
kind of basic apple laptop now i've done
some testing with the i5 version
and the i3 version like this is the
basic base model
999 i3 version this is the four core
upgraded i5 version in terms of
benchmarks this is faster it's got two
extra cores multi-core
benchmarks do better but in terms of
regular use
these feel identical like in chrome and
safari i can't really tell the
difference between them even battery
life is similar i thought the i3 would
last a little bit longer because it's
got fewer cores
but i'm getting around nine and a half
hours for both of these now a lot of
people would recommend the i5 over the
i3 just because it's double the cores
and it's only 100
more and i think for most people who can
afford it i'd go with that
recommendation as well like if you can
swing that extra 100 bucks
go for the i5 for the peace of mind but
i think for a lot of people that
aren't doing any kind of like processor
intensive stuff like if you're just
using your laptop for work
or school and you have no real intention
for editing videos or photos or
playing games or even app development if
you're just a light user i think you're
gonna be safe saving that hundred bucks
if that's something you're trying to do
now i think the more important question
here the more important conversation is
how does this 2020 macbook air stack up
against
other devices like the i don't use the
word competition but the other devices
you might be considering
if you're looking at the macbook air so
the first thing that might come into
your mind
is last year's model the previous
generation
of macbook air the 2019 or 2018 model
and these devices were still using the
butterfly switches on their keyboards
with their questionable reliability
and just for that reason alone like
forget about the cpu upgrades forget
about anything else
just that reliable keyboard makes the
2020 model
that much better now unless you get this
thing for like three or four hundred
bucks off of the original price like
maybe i'd consider them because they
still have the keyboard repair program
still has a couple years on that but i
think for most people try to go for the
instead of the previous two years okay
uh next up
13-inch macbook pro this is a more
complex discussion but
the simple version is this the 13-inch
macbook pro
is a more powerful laptop it's got an
older
9th gen cpu but because the thermal
system in here is better
it's just better equipped to remove heat
like it's got bigger fans
it's got better fans got bigger heat
pipes it is going to perform better when
you're pushing these systems
hard for an extended period of time so
if you're doing any kind of
i don't know content creation or you're
a developer that renders really
frequently
then the macbook air probably isn't your
best option
but the problem is this right now if
you're looking
at a more powerful 13-inch device from
apple
this is the only option and it's got a
butterfly keyboard the older generation
of keyboard so
if you're asking for my recommendation
it'll just be to wait use whatever
you're using right now you've made it
this far
just wait until apple comes out with a
replacement
of the 13 it might be a 14 inch but a
replacement of this
with these new keyboards okay uh next
device
actually there's three for this one now
these are windows devices and i think
for some people who are interested in a
macbook air
these are not even part of the equation
like they would never consider these for
a bunch of reasons like one they may not
like windows laptops maybe they've had
some bad ones in the past and they hate
them
valid reason two you know maybe they
like the design of a macbook the design
aesthetic of apple devices really nice i
get it
and three and i think this is a big one
these don't run mac os
and i get it i get all three of those
reasons i subscribe to
all three of those reasons i genuinely
do but i'm gonna bring up
a conversation i think not a lot of
people are having
mac os is a wonderful operating system i
prefer
mac os over windows for a bunch of
reasons but i actually use a windows
laptop right now
there's a problem with mac os that not a
lot of people talk about because it's
not something that is
it's not something that comes out very
easily
and to tell you this i gotta go into
story time so
four years ago in like 2000 and
no it was more than four years ago like
six years ago 2014.
i had a friend he asked me for a laptop
recommendation
at the time i recommended to him a
macbook air a very easy recommendation
because apple's laptops were
great then and windows laptops at that
point in time were pretty much trash
so he picked up the macbook air he loved
it he got deep into the apple ecosystem
he enjoyed it thoroughly
and then four years later he's like hey
man i'd like a i'd like an upgrade
what's what's the next
apple laptop that you would recommend
for me should i get the new macbook air
should i get
the new macbook pros and that's when i
was like well
they got butterfly switches right now
and they got some overheating laptops
can interest you in a windows laptop
because they got some really good stuff
nowadays and he was like no
absolutely not because mac os
it was for him he he had decided that
point that he was going to stick with
mac os because
that's all he had used for four years
and that's all he was comfortable with
and i get it i've been down that road
but you see the problem here
when you are enamored with apple's
operating system particularly with their
computers
you're at the mercy of apple's hardware
decisions their design
choices like if they decide to make
something weird one year
you got to use it if they decide to make
something great like this year like it's
awesome
everybody wins they got some great stuff
everyone's happy but when they make
butterfly switches
and when they make trashcan mac pros
that overheat you also have to put up
with that hardware so
when they do something weird there's
really no other option
and this year it's great but what if
four years from now
you know let's say you get into the
apple ecosystem today you get the mac os
and you're into it you love it because
this thing's awesome
four years from now what if they get rid
of the keyboard what if they're like hey
let's use these
new laser diode touch sensitive
magic pads whatever they call it i'm
just making that up but the point being
if they get rid of something or they
tweak something in their hardware
that doesn't jive with you you either
don't upgrade your computer for years
because you've got to stick with the old
stuff
or you force yourself to use it because
there's nothing else there's truly
nothing else that runs the operating
system that you are so in love with
so i bring up this anecdotal story and i
bring up these
three windows laptops because
windows gives you freedom it gives you
i hate to use that word like apple's
trapping you but it gives you options it
gives you choices
so that if you don't like a particular
device one year because they decide to
make something weird
you can go with a different company so
this is the xps 13 this is the
hp envy 13 and the surface laptop 3
from microsoft all three of these are
priced very similar
to the 2020 macbook air they're
better in terms of hardware they have
faster processors they have
wi-fi six they have more ports they have
better ports
arguably because they have usb-a they
have i mean there's a lot of stuff
that's going
great with these devices they have
replaceable storage
this does not um you get what i'm saying
i'm not saying that this is a bad device
at all in fact this is the first
apple laptop in years that i would just
be like
you're gonna love it you're gonna love
this device because it's so good
but just be aware that when you go down
that road
if this is like you know oftentimes the
laptop choice you make
dictates what you end up doing with the
other tech decisions with apple stuff in
particular
so just be aware be be informed be
knowledgeable
about what you're buying okay hope you
guys enjoyed this video thumbs if you
liked it subs if you loved it
i'll see you guys next time i've done
reviews for all three of these i believe
on my channel
okay